SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Health (MOH) on 6 June confirmed the detection of 20 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,196.

The are six new cases of COVID-19 infection in the community, said the MOH in a news release. Of these, five are linked to past cases, and all have been placed on quarantine. The remaining local case is unlinked.

There are also 14 imported cases, all of whom have been placed on Stay-Home Notice or isolated since their arrival in Singapore.

Among the new cases today, 17 were asymptomatic while three were symptomatic.

Unlinked community case did not immediately seek medical treatment
The sole unlinked community case is a 13-year-old Singaporean girl who is a student at Paya Lebar Methodist Girls’ School. She was last in school on 18 May. She developed anosmia on 29 May and did not seek medical treatment until 4 June when she visited a general practitioner (GP) clinic and was tested for COVID-19. 

Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 5 June. Her serology test result is pending.

Five linked cases already quarantined
The remaining cases are family members or close contacts of previous cases and have been quarantined. They are:

a 50-year-old male China national who works as a machine operator at Xinghe Knife Sharpening Service; he is linked to the NTUC Foodfare (308 Anchorvale Road) cluster. 

a 29-year-old Malaysian man who works as a delivery rider at Pizza Hut (Bukit Merah), and resides at Wanderloft Capsule Hostel; he is linked to the McDonald’s delivery riders cluster. 

a 13-year-old Singaporean boy who is a student at Canberra Secondary School and was last in school on 18 May; he is linked to the Tektronix cluster. 

a 10-year-old Singaporean boy who is a student at Endeavour Primary School and was last in school on 18 May; he is linked to the Tektronix cluster. 

a 79-year-old Singaporean woman who is a retiree; she is linked to the Case 63931 cluster. 

New Case 63931 cluster: 3 cases
The MOH announced a new cluster with three cases currently, with the latest case – a 79-year-old Singaporean woman – announced on Sunday. The cluster is so-named as Case 63931 is an 82-year-old Singaporean man who is a retiree – he was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 1 June.

Imported cases include 12 Singaporeans/PRs returning from India
Among the 14 imported cases: 

 Six are Singaporeans and six are Singapore permanent residents who returned from India. 

One is a work pass holder who arrived from Myanmar. 

One is a short-term visit pass holder who arrived from Indonesia to visit her family member who is a Singaporean.

Two clusters closed
As there have been no more cases linked to the Tan Tock Seng Hospital and Pasir Panjang Terminal clusters for the past two incubation periods, or 28 days, the MOH have closed them. 

99% of total cases have recovered, 2 in ICU
With 22 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on Sunday, 61,635 cases – or 99.1 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.

Most of the 207 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while two of them are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.

A total of 321 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.

Apart from the 33 patients who have died from COVID-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.

Among the 168 confirmed cases reported from 31 May to 6 June, 59 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 79 have tested negative, and 30 serology test results are pending.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 136 cases in the week before to 116 cases in the past week, the MOH said. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 23 cases in the week before to 17 cases in the past week.

In a national televised address on Monday, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said the government should be able to ease COVID-19 safe management restrictions after 13 June if the pandemic situation continues to improve and the number of community cases falls further.